Lesson and checkpoint draft (#3)
lilykriopelle/intermediate-react-react-router: lesson/narrative_and_checkpoints/narrative-and-checkpoints-template.md

```js
<Switch>
  <Route path='/categories/:categoryName'>
    <Category />
  </Route>
  <Route path='/categories'>
    <Categories />
  </Route>
</Switch>
```

There's nothing wrong with this way of routing, but as soon as you start to introduce more features into your application, you may find that having all the routes contained in a single router becomes a bit unwieldly. The way around this is to get comfortable rendering routes from components elsewhere in your app.

For example, consider this `Categories` component, which iterates through a list of categories and links to each:

```js
function Categories ({ categories }) {
  return (
    <ul>
      {
        categories.map(c =>
          <li>
            <Link to={`categories/${c.name}`}>{c.name}</Link>
          </li>
        )
      }
    </ul>
  )
}
```

> Clicking on a link rendered in this component will cause the URL to change; it will match the route from our previously defined router. But note that, from inside this `Categories` component, in order to know which component will be rendered when the URL updates, we have to navigate back to the component file where the routes were defined.
> 
> Because React Router handles routing dynamically (eg. routes exist when they are rendered), you can relocate the route to the components in which they are relevant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
According to our previously defined router, clicking on a link rendered by this component will cause the URL to change and then match the route `'/categories/:categoryName'`, thus rendering a `Category`. Though this works as intended, note that this resulting logic is completely separated from this `Categories` component. In order to see which component will be rendered when the URL updates we would have to navigate back to the component file where the routes were defined. 

Because React Router handles routing dynamically (eg. routes exist when they are rendered), you can render a `Route` anywhere within your application. In this case, we can relocate the `Route` that renders an individual `Category` component within the `Categories` component where the `Link`s to that route are defined. 
```

```js
import { Link, Route } from 'react-router-dom'

function Categories ({ categories }) {
  return (
    <div>
      <ul>
        {
          categories.map(c =>
            <li>
              <Link to={`categories/${c.name}`}>{c.name}</Link>
            </li>
          )
        }
       </ul>
      <Route path='categories/:categoryName'>
        <Category />
      </Route>
    </div>
  )
}
```

Rewriting your routes this way makes it very obvious what will happen when the user clicks on a link. It also allows us to clean up our top-level router by removing the route for an individual category.

```js
<Switch>
   <Route path='/categories'>
    <Categories />
   </Route>
</Switch>
```

> 

Reviewer: To keep each exercise focused on one topic at a time, I think we should end the exercise here and add in a separate exercise that focuses on `useRouteMatch()`

Hint: Import the necessary React Router components in **Articles.js** and render a `Route` with the appropriate path.

## Exercise 11: _`Redirect`_

### Narrative:
If you take anything away from this lesson, it should be that React Router treats everything as a component. To get fully comfortable using React Router in your code, you have to embrace this idea and the declarative coding style that follows from it. For the most part, this is pretty intuitive, but it can feel a bit counterintuitive when it comes to redirecting users.

To appreciate the declarative pattern, consider a common case for redirecting a user: a user wants to access a page that requires authentication, but is not currently signed in.

```js
import { Redirect } from 'react-router-dom'

const UserProfile = ({ loggedIn }) => {
  if (loggedIn) {
    return (
      // ... user profile contents here
    )
  }

  <Redirect to='/' />
}
```

React Router also provides the option to redirect imperatively. You might choose to do this if you are working on an existing codebase where it is the norm, or to avoid adding local state to a component whose only purpose is to conditionally render a `Redirect`.

> One scenario in which you might choose to redirect imperatively is after a form submission. It is common to redirect after successfully submitting a form, and while it would be possible to do this declaratively (by adding some local state that is `false` until the form has been submitted and then becomes `true` and conditionally rendering a `Redirect` based on the value of that state), a simple solution is to imperatively redirect in the event handler that submits the form.

Reviewer: What do you think about reframing these paragraphs as a discussion on the disadvantages of using Redirect. Are there any advantages?

To redirect imperatively, you will need access to the router's `history` object so that you can trigger a change to the current URL. React Router provides a hook, `useHistory()` that returns a [`history`](https://reactrouter.com/web/api/history) object. To update the URL, call the `history` object's  `push` function and pass it the path to which you want to navigate like so:

```js
const onSubmit => (e) => {
  postArticle({ /* form data */ })
  history.push('/articles')
}

> ```

Reviewer: This introduction and explanation of the `history` object feel a bit abrupt. Could you expand this explanation so that there's more context about what the history object is and mention the notion of the "history stack"?

Also, the example could be expanded. I'd like to see
+ how the `useHistory` hook is imported
+ An example of calling useHistory to get the `history` object
+ Where this onSubmit feature is used within a component.

After the example, you should include an explanation that breaks down the code and how `history.push` actually causes a redirect.

Reviewer: What do you think about moving all of the `history` redirect content into the next exercise? I think the explanation you provide for what the `history` object could provide a good context for redirecting with history. On the other hand, I see the value of keeping this nearby redirects. What if you moved this entire exercise to after the `More on useHistory` exercise? Then you could present `Redirect` as an alternative to `history.push()` rather than the other way around?
